Docs: Add limitations for Basic Authentication (#26817)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-built-in-authentication.adoc

====
 
The Basic Authentication mechanism does not provide confidentiality protection for the transmitted credentials. The credentials are merely encoded with Base64 when in transit and not encrypted or hashed in any way. Therefore, Basic Authentication is used with HTTPS to provide confidentiality.

> There are a few limitations associated with Basic Authentication, which include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basic Authentication is a well-specified challenge/response scheme that all browsers and most Web servers understand. The main benefit of this method is its ability to work through proxy servers. However, there are a few limitations associated with Basic Authentication, which include:
```

Author: Thanks for sharing this. 
Added this information.

> Credentials as plain text::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Credentials are sent as plain text::
```

Author: Done, added the suggestion

> Basic Authentication is a well-specified, simple challenge or response scheme that all web browsers and most web servers understand. However, there are a few limitations associated with Basic Authentication, which include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basic Authentication is a well-specified, simple challenge and response scheme that all web browsers and most web servers understand. However, there are a few limitations associated with Basic Authentication, which include:
```

+
--

> It is required to use HTTPS with Basic Authentication. However, if the load balancer terminates HTTPS, the risk of exposing credentials as plain text increases when HTTP is forwarded to Quarkus.

Author: Done, added the suggestion.

> Also, in multi-hop deployments, HTTPS is only used between client and the first Quarkus endpoint, and the basic credentials are propagated from the first Quarkus endpoint to the next endpoint. Therefore, the credentials are sent as plain text.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, in multi-hop deployments, the credentials can be exposed if HTTPS is used between the client and the first Quarkus endpoint only but they are propagated to the next endpoint over HTTP.
```

Author: Done, changed the sentence as follows:

"Also, in multi-hop deployments, the credentials can be exposed if HTTPS is used between the client and the first Quarkus endpoint only. However, the credentials are propagated to the next Quarkus endpoint over HTTP."

--

> Credentials being exposed::

Author: Done, added the suggestion

> Also, in multi-hop deployments, the credentials can be exposed if HTTPS is used between the client and the first Quarkus endpoint only. However, the credentials are propagated to the next Quarkus endpoint over HTTP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, in multi-hop deployments, the credentials can be exposed if HTTPS is used between the client and the first Quarkus endpoint only and the credentials are propagated to the next Quarkus endpoint over HTTP.
```

Author: @sberyozkin Thanks for adding that. Fixed the sentence as suggested.

+
--
In Basic Authentication, a username and password need to be sent with each request, which increases the risk of credentials being exposed.
--

Application complexity increases::
+
--

> The Quarkus application needs to ensure that username, passwords, and roles are securely secured, which increases the application complexity. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Quarkus application needs to ensure itself that the usernames, passwords, and roles are managed securely, which increases the application complexity. 
```

Author: Done, added the suggestion.

> The Quarkus application needs to ensure itself that usernames, passwords, and roles are managed securely, which increases the application complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Quarkus application needs to ensure that usernames, passwords, and roles are managed securely, which increases the application complexity.
```

Author: I think I'll keep it as is to force on the statement that this actually increases the application complexity.

Reviewer: OK :)

====
 
The Basic Authentication mechanism does not provide confidentiality protection for the transmitted credentials. The credentials are merely encoded with Base64 when in transit and not encrypted or hashed in any way. Therefore, Basic Authentication is used with HTTPS to provide confidentiality.

> Basic Authentication is a well-specified challenge or response scheme that all web browsers and most web servers understand. The main benefit of this method is its ability to work through proxy servers. However, there are a few limitations associated with Basic Authentication, which include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Basic Authentication is a well-specified, simple challenge or response scheme that all web browsers and most web servers understand. However, there are a few limitations associated with Basic Authentication, which include:
```

Credentials are sent as plain text::
+
--
It is required to use HTTPS with Basic Authentication to avoid exposing the credentials. However, if the load balancer terminates HTTPS, the risk of exposing credentials as plain text increases when a request is forwarded to Quarkus over HTTP.

> Also, in multi-hop deployments, the credentials can be exposed if HTTPS is used between the client and the first Quarkus endpoint only. However, the credentials are propagated to the next Quarkus endpoint over HTTP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, in multi-hop deployments, the credentials can be exposed if HTTPS is used between the client and the first Quarkus endpoint only and the credentials are propagated to the next Quarkus endpoint over HTTP.
```

Author: Done, added the suggestion.
